information on yourself, like your name and where
you were born and when you were born, if you don't
mind? Well, I don't usually tell that. Well,
that's just fine. But I was born in Madisonville,
Texas, over here just 45 miles from College
Station. My family moved to Amarillo, Texas, when
I was quite young. And my father practiced law in
Amarillo. I went through public schools in
Amarillo. And then went to West Texas State for two
years and then to the University of Texas for two
years where I received my degree in French and
Latin of all the things. But I used those later
because I taught for a while in Amarillo and then I
came to Bryan to teach in Bryan High School and I
taught French and Latin in Bryan High School. But
that didn't last too long because I met my
husband-to-be the day after I arrived in Bryan.
I've always thought that was kind of interesting.
We were married then in 1929. And
he had his master's degree, his bachelor's and his
master's degrees from the University of Chicago.
But he always had the ambition to get that PhD.
because he was teaching here in the chemistry
department. He wanted the PhD. So we went to
Colorado the first summer after he was married.
And he tried to get a degree program set up at the
University of Colorado, but he wasn't satisfied.
So the next six summers, we went to Chicago, and he
completed the clerk for his PhD. They told him at
that time that it was the best thing for him to come
in summers because of the fact that
that was depression time. And if he had a job, he
ought to keep it. They said, we'll take care of you
in the summers. But we don't want you giving up a job
to come up here and finish it in the required time it
would take for long sessions. He received his
degree. And 37. We have two sons. One of them went
three years to A&M. The other one went four years to
A&M. Both have completed degrees and are doctors.
One is a pediatrician in Denver, Colorado. The
other is a psychiatrist and has just recently
moved to Bryan. He
built our home in 1936 and lived in this house ever
since. So the reason you came to Bryan, did your
family move here? No, I had relatives in Bryan, and
they persuaded me to come here and teach. In fact,
they helped secure the job for me because at that
time it was hard to get a job. job for a teacher. And
the curious thing about it, they would not let
women who were married teach in the Bryan schools
at that time. So when we were married, I had to give
up my job teaching. Now, all women that want to
teach can if they're equipped for it. OK. When you
came here, what was the town of Bryan College
Station Combined like it is now, or was it College
Station small? Oh, no, it wasn't very much between
the two.
College Station hadn't grown up very much. In
fact, when we built this house, there was nothing
south of us. Now it just extends for miles out south
of us. But the only road to College Station at that
time was the one over by the railroad track. and
that's where you came to College Station from
Bryan at that time. Later, we were very delighted
when they opened Jersey Street and opened Texas
Avenue. Texas Avenue had not extended out very
far,
but when we built here, we were about the fourth
house on this street. About the fourth
house. Well, did the Was the town of College
Station, did it group around the main street, or
was it just centered around the university
itself? Oh, just the university. That was it.
Northgate was the center of the business life of
College Station. And at the time we moved here, no
students were allowed to have cars on the campus.
No students were allowed to have cars, we'll put it
that way, because boys would come here and offer to
rent our garage so that they could keep a car and
attend school and not let the authorities know
they had cars in this community.
The East Gate didn't grow up until four years later
after that. And the wood stores on Jersey didn't be
up there until after that. been living here for a
while. Was there a distinction between, were
there different classes of people, like rich
people, lower class? Were there distinctions
between black and white at that time? At that time,
there were some colored sections around. But the
people of the university, it was the college for so
long, were just about on the same level. I mean,
financially and our homes and everything of that
sort. We didn't have any rich people. We just had
college professors are never rich. We live just
about like everybody else around here. Well, now,
do you remember any severe weather events such as
any droughts or floods or anything of that type?
No, I remember one time when the temperature
dropped to six below zero. And people really
suffered because houses aren't built here for
that kind of weather. And many pipes froze and many
pipes burst. But we were fortunate in not having
any trouble at our home. Has the weather, like, did
it used to snow here more often, or was it just about
like it is now? Just about as it is now. We never did
have snow every year. Some years we'd have heavy
snow. Two years ago, if you were here, you'd
remember that we had snow that lasted for over a
week. But this year, I haven't seen any snow. They
said there were a few flakes in the morning. Did...
What was the town? Was it an incorporated town? Did
it have a mayor? What was the political... How was
it run? At first, we did not.
Then, Mr. McNew, I believe, was the moving spirit
in having the town incorporated.
I don't remember very much about how it was run
before that. Well, have you noticed... a shift in
the livelihood activities of the people here?
Like, has it changed from agricultural? I know the
city's grown, but would you say there was about as
many agricultural activity then as now, or was it
more toward agriculture then? This has always
been a cotton-growing country around here, and
the Brazos Bottom has been the source of much of the
wealth that has been in Bryan all these years. The
farms I believe now, they are more, I think they've
been sold to bigger corporations. There used to be
lots of smaller farms in the bottom. But outside of
that, there hasn't been too much agriculture
anymore. Well now, when we moved here, were
electricity and telephones already installed?
Yes, yes. But when I first came to Bryan, there was
no gas. All homes were heated then by, mostly by
fireplaces. But they brought gas in, and old
people were so delighted when they brought gas in,
but they had electricity before I came, and sewer,
and everything like that. You mentioned, you
know, the road system, how it was just the Weldon
Highway that connected You mentioned that they
opened up Texas. Was that a highway then? Did it go
all the way to Madison like it does now? Is that when
they opened it? Not for a while. We had to go through
Wellborn and Milliken to go to Houston before the
Texas Highway was built. And
I can't think what it was called before it became
Texas. That
means Houston Highway, I guess. Yeah. Do you
remember about what time they opened the
road back just around what years? No. I know that
when we first moved here, our streets weren't
paved. There was a little gravel put on them, but
numerous people were stuck in our driveway. And in
the curb, near the curb, we didn't get Really
didn't get the curbs and gutters until, oh, the
50s, I
guess. College Station started a paving. Would
you say that the College Station brine area has
grown faster in the last 10 years than so before?
Yes. I think the reason for that is that the
university has grown so fast. Right now, it seems
to me that it's growing faster than it ever
has. The customs, you know, I'm sure they've
changed quite a bit from back when you first came
here. Let's say the food. Did most people buy their
food, or was there a lot of growing food and selling
it from the land itself? There used to be a farmer's
market in Brown where we made it a point to go every
Saturday. They had it, I believe, on Wednesday and
Saturday. And we were able to procure fresh
vegetables and fruits at times. But we were all
delighted when the first market came in here. I
think A&P was probably the first that came in. We
noticed the prices went down in the grocery stores
after this supermarket business began to come
into our community. At that time, we could drive to
Houston and buy groceries and save enough to pay
for our trip to Houston.
There was quite a chain of business there. Just a
few old-timers had stores in Brown, and they kept
the store prices high.
Well, then what about the grants? I'm sure that's
changed. Well, it's changed just as it has all over
the country, because after all, America's pretty
much the same, and particularly now since TV. And
social life has changed since we've had TV. And air
conditioning, those two things have changed. We
used to visit people more than we do now, and people
used to visit us more. And we had more of our
homemade social life, I'll call it, at that time,
because people didn't sit in front of the TV, and
they weren't comfortable with the air condition
that's the way they are now. Well, did y'all... The
different people give parties back then? Yes. I
remember soon after we were married that I would
have a party, maybe have 40 or 50 people for dinner.
I haven't done that in a long time. We could get help
that would make it easier for us at that time. Well,
what about... entertainment as far as outside
people? Did College Station Bryan area get many
what you call big name entertainers to come and
visit? There has never been a time here where there
wasn't something going on. It used to be called
Town Hall and met in Gine
Hall. That's where we saw plays. We heard the
famous opera singers, and good programs were
brought in at that time, just as they are now.
What was the police force like? Did they have a
police force? Did they need one about the law and
order? Was it pretty well acquired? This has never
been a very... wild community so far as crime is
concerned. I've heard of a few burglaries in this
neighborhood, but that's the only crime I've ever
heard of. Okay, now what about the fire
department? Did they have a fire department here?
We had to use the college
fire department. It hasn't been very many years
that College Station itself had a real fire
department. Now I think it's switched, and the
university uses the College Station fire
department now. OK. You were in the school system.
You might mention a little bit how it was run, about
not being able to be married and teach. How was the
weather? Would you consider the school system was
good for this area? Well, see, I taught in Bryan,
and there was a separate system at College Station
at the time. I thought the Bryan system was a pretty
good system. We had about all the courses that most
high schools offer now. And I thought it was a
really good system. Because there was one high
school? Oh, yes. Weren't there two schools in
Brown at that time? One was on the west side and one
was on the east side. Were the schools, did they
have a black school and a white school? Oh, yes.
Yes, the school was part of the blacks in Brown.
Then later, I don't know about College Station
schools at that time, but I know later there were.
and Scooby-Doo
as far as that at College Station. You might
mention a little bit about the Depression. Do you
remember, of course, the effects, I'm sure,
reached everywhere in the US, but do you remember
the conditions, some of the living conditions,
like as far as transportation, means of income?
Did people get along, or were they hard-pressed?
Well, it was hard. I remember that during the
Depression, my husband was paid for, since we were
going to Chicago every summer, we were paid for his
nine months. And we had to live on that money during
the rest of the year. So there was no extravagance
at that time. You can count on that. Then I believe
that was the time when We had to discount the
warrants. We were paid in warrants, and then they
had to be discounted. We'd go up to the bank, and
they'd charge us so much to cash them, you know.
That was, it wasn't easy, because the salaries
were low then, too. Well, were the prices, did they
go up, or were they about the same as far as food?
Well, they were much lower than they are today. But
it made up, it was still harder because of the time.
Oh, yes. Because
of the time, it was harder. Do you remember any of
the programs that President Roosevelt came out
with affecting any of this area around here, such
as the WPA and the RA? I can't remember that very
much was done here. I have seen buildings in other
cities. that were built at that time. I remember
that my brother-in-law was a doctor and he went to a
CC camp and worked because it was hard at that time
for a doctor to
make a living. What effect did Would you say that
World War II, did it have on the community here, A&M
being a military school then, did it take anything
away from the community, or did the community have
to do without as far as certain commodities? There
was an Air Force base out from Bryan, and that
brought in a lot of money to the community that
wouldn't have been here. It was a training for
fighter bombers, I believe. And that brought in
money that helped the community here. We had the
same sort of situation that was everywhere at that
time because we had our little stamps that we used
to buy food. We had the
One, all in places when we'd hear there was sugar,
several of us would go together and go to town to try
to get some of that sugar that had come in. We had
just about the same conditions here that were all
over. Okay. What about the churches? Were there
many different churches here? Just the same that
there are now. There may be a few. different ones
now, but the main churches were, I don't believe
the Catholics built out here for a while, but
the Church of Christ was needed at that time
because they made it the library.
I
don't mean the library,
I mean the YMCA. The Baptist Church was moving, the
Methodist. I can't remember that, the Episcopal.
The Presbyterian was moving at that time. What
about, did much building go on during the
Depression or during World War II as far as the
university or the houses and communities? Did it
grow much during that period of time? Not very much
during that time. Would you say it lost or just
stayed about the same? I would say it didn't stay
about the same because where there's a school,
like A&M, of course the enrollment got down. I
don't know.
I can't remember if there was much change, though,
on account of the World War II. I was trying to
think. I read a letter that my husband had written
me when I went on a visit, and he was telling me that
they thought they were going to have 5,000
students, and they were very delighted of it. They
thought that was going to be
this real deal for them. What about the railroads?
Would you say that the towns that first grew up
around the railroads and then moved on to other
places? Oh, the railroads was the center of the
community. We had three trains to Dallas every
day. There was one in the morning, one in the
afternoon, and then one in the night. And to
Houston, of course, the same number. We had two
trains through here at that time. That was really
the center of transportation at that time.
Well, that's just about all the questions that I
had, particularly. I can tell you something that
was very interesting. The water in College
Station was a sulfur calc water. And we couldn't
leave any of it overnight in an aluminum pan. We
did. We got up in the morning and saw the bubbles all
over the pan. We had to watch that very carefully.
And our silver garnished very easily from that
water.
We were happy when we got some new water. Did y'all
have individual wells then? It was always piped
in. We used city water. Would you say that the A&M
changed, the college changed since the Corps
wasn't mandatory? Would you say it was more
military type then? Did that change the town? Have
any effect on the town that you can remember?
I don't know that it did. Maybe the social life
among the Corps was a little more than I hear of now.
I know that I have, along with many other people in
this community, have rented rooms on weekends to
girls who came for festivities on the campus.
There were no hotels except for the old Aggieland
Inn on the campus.
And Brown didn't have very many hotels. So they
used to phone and say, can you take three girls or
two girls? Some family would come in and visit. Now
it's very different with so many motels
and hotels around. Would you say that most of the
families that lived in College Station were
professors to the university? Would you say
that's what made up most of the town? Yes.
It's been that way. Until recently, it seems to me
that there are lots of people around now who are not
connected with the university. And this was a
college, and the school wasn't so large. Most of
the people out here were connected with the
university in some way. Professors are workers.
Were there...
such days as was it hard at times to to get things to
the city itself to buy such as gasoline or meats I
guess meats and agriculture it wouldn't be that
big a thing since that took place here but just
during the war we had
trouble getting things we used the system of
neighbors going in together to
do our transportation during the war. But after
the war, we have had no coverage of anything. Can
you think of any influential families, names that
stand out of individual families of the area that
have owned quite a bit or more or less, you know,
influence the community to a big extent or would
you say it's mostly been just a community working
together? It seems to me it's more just a community
working together. Mr. Burgess and a few people
like that have developed places. Now, Mr. Burgess
developed this section of the community and he
also developed the what was called North Oakwood.
This was South Oakwood, and that was North
Oakwood. Then there was a group that developed the
section to the west of this. But it has, there
hasn't been any, just real leader in developing
things and growing,
building things. Just various
individuals. Oh. Were the
families that lived here then that were mostly
faculty of the A&M school, since they had a lot in
common, was it a closer knit community than it is
now, do you think? Yes. I attribute part of that,
though, to the fact that people have TVs and air
conditioning. That makes a difference. I know
that we used to have book clubs here. We'd have
maybe people on two or three streets would each buy
a book, and then we'd pass those on. So maybe we read
a little more at that time. So you were saying that
the TV made a big difference in social life here,
but just everywhere too. Oh yes, everywhere. It's
not just community. Did y'all used to listen to the
radio as the main media? Yes, we did. We had a radio
from... We bought it right after
we married. It was the center of a lot of our
entertainment, you might say. You had mentioned
that your relatives were the ones that persuaded
you to come here to this area at first. Why were they
in this area, do you know? Well, I mentioned that
that was Mrs. Coker who called me on the phone. Her
father had moved here to set up that Allen Academy,
the school. And then I had a cousin in Bryant whose
husband was a doctor. I had another cousin whose
husband was a druggist. I had an uncle who was a
banker. And these people just entertained me when
I came to visit before that, and then they
suggested that I come down here and teach school.
Do you know where your family is from as far as
before they came to Texas? My mother's people came
from Tennessee, and my father's people came from
Mississippi.
My husband's people were English,
Scotch-Irish is what he said. My people were, my
mother's people were, some of them from Italy and
some from
Well, I don't know. What other country? And my
father's people were Swedish. Would you say that
any particular nationality grouped together
anywhere around this area? Like, you know, in
central Texas it's Polish and Czech peoples, and
then down towards San Antonio it's Germans. Would
you say this area was more or less mixed as far as
nationalities? Yes, there is a big Italian group
here, and also there is a big Czech group. I know a
man whose mother, to this day, doesn't speak
English. She still speaks Czech.